# silly-solve

A silly little multiple equation solver based on term rewriting. Intended for
monotonic spreadsheet-like systems of equations where you can solve everything
by doing enough substitution, simplification and evaluation.

I needed this because I ran into an issue with [expresso][] where providing
additional superfluous variables confused it. It would apply certain equations
and be unable to resolve some variables. Trying to execute with all subsets of
equations seemed like way more of a hassle than just writing a simple solver,
since I really just wanted some very straightforward expressions. Plus, you
might even be able to use this in combination with expresso: this is silly but
makes progress, expresso is sophisticated but sometimes get stuck; perhaps they
can help each other out.

(I tried amending expresso but its sophistication also made it pretty dense;
because the equations I wanted to solve are so straightforward, it felt easier
to just write a bit of [meander][] to make progress.)

[expresso]: https://github.com/clojure-numerics/expresso
[meander]: https://github.com/noprompt/meander

Goals:

* Given some simple equations with enough constants that they can be solved
  step-by-step and in some sense monotonically, solve them

Non-goals:

* Hitting any metrics of simplification or aesthetics, e.g. `(+ -4 x)` vs `(- x 4)`
* Full-on Gaussian solvers
* Full-on other solvers (e.g. logarithms, differentials...)

## Installation

Download from https://github.com/io.lvh/silly-solve

## Usage

FIXME: explanation

Run the project directly, via `:exec-fn`:

    $ clojure -X:run-x
    Hello, Clojure!

Run the project, overriding the name to be greeted:

    $ clojure -X:run-x :name '"Someone"'
    Hello, Someone!

Run the project directly, via `:main-opts` (`-m io.lvh.silly-solve`):

    $ clojure -M:run-m
    Hello, World!

Run the project, overriding the name to be greeted:

    $ clojure -M:run-m Via-Main
    Hello, Via-Main!

Run the project's tests (they'll fail until you edit them):

    $ clojure -X:test:runner

Build an uberjar:

    $ clojure -X:uberjar

This will update the generated `pom.xml` file to keep the dependencies synchronized with
your `deps.edn` file. You can update the version (and SCM tag) information in the `pom.xml` using the
`:version` argument:

    $ clojure -X:uberjar :version '"1.2.3"'

If you don't want the `pom.xml` file in your project, you can remove it, but you will
also need to remove `:sync-pom true` from the `deps.edn` file (in the `:exec-args` for `depstar`).

Run that uberjar:

    $ java -jar silly-solve.jar

## Options

FIXME: listing of options this app accepts.

## Examples

...

### Bugs

...

### Any Other Sections
### That You Think
### Might be Useful

## License

Copyright © 2022 Lvh

_EPLv1.0 is just the default for projects generated by `clj-new`: you are not_
_required to open source this project, nor are you required to use EPLv1.0!_
_Feel free to remove or change the `LICENSE` file and remove or update this_
_section of the `README.md` file!_

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License version 1.0.
